Lefteris Petrounias, born on November 30, 1990, is an Olympic gold medalist and world champion in the sport of rings. With his obvious talents being spotted early on, it was no surprise that even from the age of 10 he had already won medals at the Greek Juniors Championship. On top of these, Lefteris has won more than 20 medals and a hefty total of more than 30 distinctions, not only on a national but on an international level. He has been nicknamed justifiably as the “Midas of the Rings” and suggests a dominant figure in the sport of rings, especially since the competent body of the World Federation named after him an exercise in the rings, which had been performed by Lefteris Petrounias at the European Championships in Sofia,Bulgaria and assessed with the difficulty rating E (0.50 points). At the Rio Olympics, Lefteris executed his routine in a unique way in the course of the final of the rings. He earned 16,000 points and consequently rose to the highest step of the podium so as to receive the gold medal. During his second appearance at the Olympics Games, he managed to win the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics. In 2023, Lefteris Petrounias, won the Bronze Medal at the European Championship in Antalya and the Gold Medal at the World Cup of Artistic Gymnastics in Cottbus, Germany. In October of the same year, Lefteris Petrounias won 2nd place in the World Gymnastics Championship and ensured his participation in the Olympic Games in Paris in 2024.

Katerina Stefanidi, born in Athens on February 4th 1990, is a Gold Olympic medalist and World Champion in Pole Vaulting. She has participated in the Olympic Games in London in 2012, in Rio in 2016 and in Tokyo 2021 as well as in numerous World and European Athletics Championships. She lives permanently in the USA. Katerina found her way to the top at the Rio Olympics, managing to live up to the high expectations, winning the gold medal through her “flight” at 4.85m., in one of the most breathtaking finals of the Olympics, with 4 athletes surpassing 4.80m. (Stefanidi, Morris, McCartney, Boyd), giving Greece the first ever medal in the Pole Vault. After winning her first Gold Olympic medal, she continued achieving greatness by winning 3 medals in World Championships and World Indoor Championships and 3 more medals in European Championships and European Indoor Championships. In 2023, Katerina Stefanidis, won 4th place in the European Indoor Championships in Istanbul.A year later, the Greek Olympian took second place and the silver medal at the European Championships in Rome. This medal was the fifth overall at the European Championships.

Anna Korakaki, born in Drama on April 8th, 1996, is a Gold Olympic medalist and World Shooting Champion. Her first steps in the sport of shooting were made at the age of 12, under the guidance of her champion father, who is still her coach as of today and only 2 years later she became a member of the National Team. She also holds the World Record in the Junior category, as a result of her performance at the European Junior Championships in Moscow in 2014. A few months after the two won silver medals at the World Cup in Baku, the Greek champion climbed to the top of the world and became the first from our country that managed to win two medals at the same Olympic Games, a gold medal in the 25m. and a bronze at 10m. air pistol. The years that followed were equally successful and in the next 6 years, she managed to win 8 more medals in World, European and Mediterranean Championships. The silver medal at the 2022 World Championships was a huge hit and a clear sign of her continuous success. In 2023, Anna Korakaki won the Gold Medal in the 10-meter event at the World Cup in Baku. The remarkable journey of the Greek Olympian continued with the winning of two more gold medals, one at the European Championships in the 10-meter air pistol event in Tallinn, Estonia and the other in the European Games in the 25-meter event in Poland. At the World Shooting Championship, which took place shortly after, in August 2023, in Baku, the Greek athlete secured the 2nd place in the 10-meter air pistol category. The second place and the silver medal was taken by the Greek athlete in the same event in the 25m Standard Pistol Women. The 2024 started in an ideal way for Anna Korakaki, after she won the gold medal in the 10m air pistol and the silver medal in the 25m pistol at the World Cup in Cairo.

Miltiadis (Miltos) Tentoglou was born in Grevena on March 18, 1998, he is 1.87m tall and weighs 71 kg. In 2016, he represented Greece at the Rio Olympics, with a 7.64m jump. From that point on, he has showcased tremendous improvement and great stability, as he has been undefeated in all Open and Indoor European Championships. After winning the gold medal at the European Championships in Berlin in 2018, Miltos managed to win 8 more gold medals in World and European Championships. Among them, stands the gold medal in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics Games. Miltos Tentoglou in 2023 won the Gold Medal at the European Indoor Championships and the Gold Medal at the European Team Championships in Poland. In June 2024, Miltos Tentoglou won the Gold Medal at the European Championships held in Rome after a sensational final.

Antigoni Ntrismpioti was born in 1984 in Karditsa and is a Greek race walking champion, who has important achievements at an international level, with the most important being the European champion in 2022 in the 20 km and 35 km race walking. She is considered to be one of the best Greek race walkers of all time. She also took first place in the 35km race walk at the 2021 European Cup of Pontebrandi and 4th place in the 35km race walk at the 2022 Oregon World Championships. She has also won 2 silver medals during  the 2022 World Race Walking Team Championship and during the 2021 European Race Walking Team Championship. In August 2022 at the European Athletics Championships in Munich, Ntrismpioti was crowned European champion in the 35 km walk, with a time of 2 hours and 47 minutes. At the age of 38, she became the first Greek woman to win a gold medal in the walking event in a European championship. Four days later, on August 20, she won a second gold in the 20 km walk with 1:29:03. Antigoni Ntrismpioti won the Gold Medal at the European Championships in Ponte Brandi in the Czech Republic and the Gold Medal at the Balkan Championships in Antalya. However, the successes did not stop there for 2023, since the Greek athlete managed to win the Bronze Medal in the 35 km Race Walking in the World Championships in Budapest.

Polyniki Emmanouilidou, born in June 2003, is a track and field athlete and member of the National Team. Along with her athlete identity, she is also a student of the School of Physical Education and Sports Sciences of Thessaloniki. She comes from Koufalia Thessaloniki and competes with the club A.S.S. Alexander of Macedonia. Polyniki is a young athlete who has already accomplished significant achievements, creating great hopes for Greek athletics in the future. She competes in 60 meters, 100 meters, 200 meters and 4×100. She has significant distinctions at the national and global level. More specifically, she holds national records and has won very important medals and titles abroad. Stoiximan, starting from 2023, has the honor to support Polyniki’s efforts and to stand by her with the common goal of achieving the distinctions and victories that she desires. Polyniki won the Bronze Medal in the 200 meters at the European U23 Championships, in Espoo, Finland. The follow-up was equally impressive with the Silver Medal in the 200m at the Balkan Championships in Serbia and the Gold Medal in the 200m at the Panhellenic Championships in Serres.